[THEME MUSIC]
>>REGINA MEREDITH: The notion
of graduating from college
with a degree in philosophy
has become a joke.
Everyone will tell you it's
the fastest track to poverty.
But just imagine,
for a moment, a world
without the great thinkers.
What would life on
Earth look like?
Well, I would
argue that you only
need to go to the closest
mall for that answer.
In fact, that very
scenario will be
featured in this
conversation just briefly.
Neil Kramer is a modern day
philosopher and esotericist.
His breadth of understanding
is vast and deep.
And we're going to discuss
one of the primary challenges
of being human.
How to live a sovereign
and meaningful life
amidst a world of distraction.
I think everybody watching
this will probably
want to know the
trick to that one.
But it's not a trick.
>>NEIL KRAMER: No.
It isn't a trick.
It's an art form.
>>REGINA: It's an art form.
And let's start out, because
we're going to-- I'll
lead into this in
a minute, but let's
talk about the nature of
this ritualistic, almost
kind of zombie-like life that
the vast majority of humanity
is participating in.
>>KRAMER: A good
visual metaphor for it
is to say that a lot
routines and patterns in life
are kind of like train tracks.
And there's various stops
on the subway, as it were.
And people become
accustomed to those
and they regard many stops
on the subway as choice.
As free will,
forgetting the fact
that they are actually
all predetermined.
>>REGINA: And they're
all in the sa--
they're going the
same line every day.
>>KRAMER: To the
You get on it.
You do this.
That choice is
mistaken for free will.
Different thing.
So there's a great
understanding in the mysticism
that I'm going to talk to
you about today in that that
has to be disposed of
as fast as possible,
which means getting
off the tracks.
Which is a very unsettling
and disturbing business
for a lot of people.
So part of my role, self
avowed and self proclaimed,
is to try and make that
achievable and approachable.
And say, only, in fact,
by getting off the rails,
getting off the tracks,
can you do anything.
Otherwise it's too inconsistent.
>>REGINA: Do you
feel that there has
to be a moment of
shaking, or awakening,
or disruption in
one's life to create
the necessity for
breaking patterns?
>>KRAMER: Yeah, either a de--
We'll stress the metaphor.
Either a derailment
or such soul numbing
repetition that
typically at the age--
>>REGINA: It's too
painful to go on.
>>KRAMER: Yeah.
You have a midlife crisis,
whether it's at 25 or 55,
and you think, why
am I doing this?
Is this something that
brings me fulfillment?
Is it aligned with my growth?
Is it something that
I'm supposed to do?
And is anyone holding a
gun to your head saying,
you must do this?
And it's typically something
that people suppress.
And culture asks us
to suppress that.
So my view is that
I agree with you.
It usually takes something.
But then it requires a great
fortitude, which we'll come to,
to actually sustain that.
Because everyone has moments
of epiphany and realization,
but then it goes away
and you're back on track.
>>REGINA: Then it actually
has to be a choice point.
One of the things we're
going to show in a minute
is-- we're going to
show a video in a minute
because it is so illustrative
of how we live our lives
and how we're influenced.
And you have watched
the illusionist-- Is he
called an illusionist,
Derren Brown?
>>KRAMER: Yeah.
>>REGINA: An illusionist,
for lack of a better word.
I think, last I heard,
28 million people a week
watch his shows in England.
And the man is
incredibly masterful.
And what is it--
why did you start
studying-- kind of
studying his ways
and watching what
he's doing by way
of manipulating the populace?
>>KRAMER: Well, it's
a classic technique,
which is you choose something
safe, that's entertaining,
to demonstrate a very
big, profound principle.
So this guy has entertainment
shows in England.
And wider UK, Scotland,
Europe-- all over the place.
Now in America.
And he takes the principal
of the train track,
and he introduces a moment of
confusion to reroute somebody.
So you know, like on the
track, you have the switches.
And he knows when
someone's approaching that,
and he pulls the switch on them.
And predetermines where
they're going to go.
To the viewer, it looks
like mind control.
And in a very real way, it is.
So he introduces a whole new
generation of 20, and 30,
and 40 and 50-year olds
to real life mind control.
And it's notable how,
when you take that out
of the guy's skill
in entertainment,
and apply it to
the television, you
realize the same thing
is being done there
as it is in the
universities and colleges.
In the home.
In the elementary school.
In the workplace.
It's the same thing.
They are doing a
Derren Brown on you.
So understanding
the mechanism makes
it harder to be controlled.
And it is the modern
version of it.
There's a guy from--
Milton Erickson--
there's other people in the past
who he's developing their work.
I'm sure he wouldn't
mind others knowing that.
But he's the contemporary
practitioner.
So I think people
are going to enjoy
the clip you're going to show.
>>REGINA: Yes.
OK.
Let's go ahead and take
a look at this clip.
And I bring it up
because this happens
at a mall, which is
why I brought that up
in the introduction to you.
Let's take a look.
[VIDEO PLAYBACK]
-American shopping malls, modern
cathedrals to spending money.
They're designed to
disorient us and make
us stay longer than we need to.
Every brick is there to
manipulate us to buy.
It's the perfect place
to find a large number
of compliant people to effect.
-Good afternoon,
ladies and gentlemen.
And welcome to the
Palisades Mall.
We hope that your shopping
experience is an uplifting arm.
And I'd like to bring
to your pay attention
some very special offers today.
-What you're hearing
in the background
is a public address announcement
I've pre-recorded and played
throughout the shopping center.
After about half an
hour of absorbing it,
they should be ready
for their final message.
Good afternoon,
ladies and gentlemen.
And welcome to the
Palisades Mall.
We hope that your shopping
experience is an uplifting arm.
And I'd like to bring
to your pay attention
some very special offers today.
Details of our
special offers can
be found handily
by the elevators.
So why not come right on
up and see for yourselves.
Our special offers will only
be available for a short period
of time.
So all those customers
wishing to reach up and grab
this exciting opportunity,
should do so now.
-I don't know, like,
everybody raised their hand.
It was just weird because
I'm walking around
and he's like, now.
And everybody raised their hand.
[END VIDEO PLAYBACK]
>>KRAMER: Gosh.
>>REGINA: And that
shot from above,
watching everybody just
walking, and all the hands
go up simultaneously.
What does that illustrate
to you about us?
>>KRAMER: People can't
operate without a program.
They have no will of their own.
And he's imposing his will
through the instruction
of English language.
So of you listen carefully
to what he's saying,
he's embedding instructions
into a disorientating syntax.
>>REGINA: Yes.
>>KRAMER: And kind of language.
So he's telling people what
to do through a language that
is kind of subliminal.
And in that liminal space, there
is an instruction that says,
I'm going to tell you
to put your hand up
and you're going to do it.
So he imposes a strong will
on people with no will,
or a very weak will, which
is most people, as we'll
come to discuss.
So it's a safe, and funny, and
entertaining way of doing it.
But if you extrapolate that out
to culture, it's far from safe.
And it's far from benign.
And you realize
that that is what's
going on with all
the media and all
the educational institutions.
And it's hard to deny that.
>>REGINA: Well, you notice
there are very few people that
didn't succumb to
that suggestion.
>>KRAMER: Yeah.
Older people,
typically, won't do it
because they're more
resilient in a way.
And very young people.
But the key thing from,
sort of, 20 to 50, whoosh.
Up.
>>REGINA: OK.
So now they had
listened to his voice
for a while with innocuous
messages prior to that.
Although he was
already starting to
embed disorienting
information in them.
>>KRAMER: Yeah.
>>REGINA: And so they become
used to the tone of his voice.
So by this kind of time, it's
kind of background noise,
by the time he offers
his final suggestion.
How does this relate to the
day to day life in the media,
for example, that
we're involved with?
>>KRAMER: It's a
very simple thing,
which is, that it's
just a bit of fun.
And it's harmless.
And it's just entertainment.
And you can always
choose to turn it off.
And so when people are telling
you about your groceries,
and about clothes,
and about technology,
and the new smartphone
or whatever, you think,
oh well, it's just stuff.
It doesn't really matter.
But that voice then shifts its
pitch, as it were, its aspect,
and starts to tell
you what to do.
So that very same
voice that was telling
you about, you know whatever,
some sort of whole grain rice,
will then be telling
you what it's
acceptable to do racially,
ethically, and morally.
And the week after, and
we learn to accept that.
And it's embedded
in the culture.
And as Terence
McKenna used to say,
and I'm happy to
quote him, culture
is not your friend
in that respect.
We're not talking
about human culture.
We're talking about
mainstream, what
I call machine culture,
which is all about circuits,
and patterns, and routines.
And as soon as you
introduce confusion,
then you get this
effect, where people
will do what they're told.
So the confusion
is the moment where
you introduce this, what's known
as a transderivational search.
So the brain goes, what?
Like that.
And then at that moment, you
can come in and impose your will
on that individual.
On a mass scale, 6
billion people, easy.
>>REGINA: So what
happens when you're
giving a perpetual
message of trauma out,
say on the evening news?
BBC.
BBC America.
NPR.
All the way through the
networks in this country.
CNN.
Constant trauma.
>>KRAMER: Well, as many
of your viewers, I'm sure,
will be aware, trauma
fragments mind,
and it brings focus into a
state of, what you might say,
blurriness.
And it destroys a
person's ability to focus.
And it erodes a person's
sense of equilibrium
in the human story.
In what we do and
what we don't do.
And the good things we do
and the bad things we do.
So you lose your
point of balance.
But even more
significant than that
is that the trauma that it
introduces to the individual
introduces a sort of
self defeating attitude,
a sort of resignation,
where you think,
well, the world's screwed.
We'll just-- we'll do
the best we can and hope
that our soldiers do this,
and our politicians do this.
And fingers crossed
it might be OK.
If big daddy in DC
makes everything OK.
Whoever that is.
Or big mommy, could
well be in 2016.
It's an old story but,
in watching the news,
you create a situation where
you dis-empower yourself
from normal human equilibrium.
The news cannot tell you
what's going on in the world.
You can only do that yourself.
It cannot tell you anything
of relevance because it
doesn't know you.
So your particular
portal, if you like,
your window into
what is meaningful
can only be determined
by yourself.
But if you're already resigned
to a world that has gone wrong,
and broken beyond repair,
you don't want to do that.
You just want a new watch.
>>REGINA: And I know
you have strong feelings
about social media.
What about being programmed
with social media?
Via social media now.
>>KRAMER: Fragmentation
is the keyword.
Social media takes
you away from will.
>>REGINA: From will.
>>KRAMER: From will.
We'll come to that.
I say that, but I know that
from what we said earlier,
we will focus on
that a little bit.
>>REGINA: Yes, we are,
in just a moment here.
>>KRAMER: Yeah.
The will of a human being
is the greatest gift
that is given, in my
view, to all of us.
It has a human,
flesh, animal aspect
which is very organic
and beautiful.
Very creative, very dynamic.
And it has a divine,
higher being aspect,
which is very esoteric.
And that is completely
deactivated by Facebook,
and Twitter, and
Pinterest, and StumbleUpon,
and all those such things.
Because it introduces
fragmentation.
And it introduces the
idea that the collective
is the diktat of will.
OK?
So it's a sort of funny
thing to say that.
But it means that
collectivist philosophy, that
is group goals over
individual goals, rules.
And that is underpinned
by the number of likes,
the number of
StumbleUpons, and all that.
So all those little
funny things--
How many friends have you got?
How many people like
this thing that you did?
--is very carefully engineered
to introduce the power
of the collective being--
>>REGINA: That's where
culture really dominates.
>>KRAMER: Dominant
over the individual.
>>REGINA: Yes.
>>KRAMER: So it
makes life worse.
Social media makes life worse.
And it disconnects
us from each other.
>>REGINA: But what about this
incredible addictive quality it
has over people's lives?
>>KRAMER: The fragmented mind
is addicted to sensation.
So if you're constantly
waiting for your smartphone
to buzz in your pocket, for
a new ping from something
from the outside, it's
like a little tiny shot
of meth or whatever.
And you just keep
having a little one.
And a little one.
And, on its own,
you can't see, well,
how is that doing us any harm?
Well, cumulatively,
is has the effect
of creating a dependency on
an outside technology, which
is in the hands of
people who lack,
in my view, spiritual wisdom.
Always something to
be cautious of, that.
So the technology in itself,
of course, is neutral.
>>REGINA: Um-hmm.
>>KRAMER: But its framework
and its positioning
has to be understood,
that only you
can determine the value of that.
No one else can
tell you about that.
Bill Gates or Mark
Zuckerberg, they don't know.
Someone else is telling
them what to do.
So you have to be very
disciplined, and very
insistent, on using
the technology.
When you want to transmit a
message, use the technology.
When you're not, turn it off.
>>REGINA: Because there becomes
this, beyond addictive quality,
this anxiety that
happens, where people that
are waiting for
their message tone.
>>KRAMER: Yeah.
They're waiting for
hive acknowledgment,
is what I call it.
>>REGINA: Exactly.
>>KRAMER: So it's
hive acceptance,
hive acknowledgment,
hive participation.
Hive- H-I-V-E. And to be
separate from that, I mean,
children in high schools across
America are killing themselves
because they're not accepted
by the hive of social media.
Literally killing themselves.
Japan has a big problem
with that, in particular,
because of its hierarchical
traditional society.
And it moves people away from
the spontaneous living moment
into a retrospective
view of life,
where you're always looking
at what's just occurred,
not what is.
>>REGINA: And so if you
find yourself kind of, even
subliminally, anxiously waiting
to hear your particular text
tone, then that's
a really good clue
that you are now
in hive mentality.
>>KRAMER: You're
You're out off balance.
You're not being a human being.
You're a conduit for
someone else's reality.
All of us will do
that a little bit.
But the technology
increases the likelihood
of that beginning to form
your habits and routines.
So it has to be turned off.
It physically has
to be turned off.
>>REGINA: So this is really
more just reflexive living.
>>KRAMER: It is.
>>REGINA: And let's
talk about will--
>>KRAMER: Sure.
>>REGINA: --and what
will is in your parlance.
Not the normal
definition of will,
but in deep, esoteric
definitions of will.
>>KRAMER: Well, let's look
at both of them side by side.
Will-- common understanding
of will is-- Traditionally,
if we go back to the 1820s,
Noah Webster's dictionary --
a good thing to do to see
language in a purer form than
it is today.
Will is to either engage with
something fully and do it.
Pursue it.
And attach to something.
Or to forbear something.
And detach from something.
And to make that decision.
So the will in the
Classical sense,
of having the resolution
to be a world class--
>>REGINA: That's like an
enforced choice point.
>>KRAMER: --a world
class pianist.
You cannot do that without will.
Right?
A violinist or painter.
You cannot do that without will.
The other side of
it, the forbearance,
is Patrick McGuinn,
the prisoner.
If you are in a kind
of incarceration,
you can forbear it
with will, where
here, no one can touch you.
And they can do whatever,
but they can't touch you.
We know many examples of that.
And it's a great power.
And it emanates from
the individual's,
as I say, fortitude and
resolution and shear
force of mental acuity.
The esoteric
understanding of will
adds a wholly different
thing to this,
which is to say
that will, all will,
is the will of the
whole of creation
and its determination to
evolve and refine itself.
And to exercise will is to
contribute and participate
in that wholeness.
So the beauty of it
is that you become
a conduit for universal will.
You may say divine will.
I like to say it like that.
But also, crucially,
it is shaped
by the individual's
individual expression of life.
Their free will to
determine for themselves
what they want to do.
So will likes that.
It doesn't want an empty vessel.
It wants a vessel with
character, and skill,
and a voice, and strength,
and passion, and power,
and all those good things.
So it's the marriage of the
real unity of consciousness.
The word, the logos, firing
out through the universe,
the algorithm of
creation, saying
participate in this with me.
It's not a finished
work, creation.
It's not done.
It's still happening.
>>REGINA: It's a constant
process of refinement.
>>KRAMER: It's still
unfolding, as it were.
>>REGINA: Yes, yes.
>>KRAMER: And in that respect,
when you join in with that,
that's the first time when
the universe can see you.
Prior to that,
you're just a body.
You're just a person.
Good luck.
Well done.
But it's roulette.
You're just playing.
It's random.
When you participate in
creation, in making refinements
to what is this, the
universe can see you.
And rather than being the vague
opponent that it is for many,
it becomes a very definite ally.
So only by walking the
spiritual path can that happen.
Christians used to say that
only by accepting divinity
can God see you.
So only by accepting
the Savior within,
which they would call Christ
and we would say is perhaps
ourselves-- same thing in
some esoteric Christianity--
can you be known by the divine.
Unless you do that,
he can't see you.
Calling him a he.
He can't see you.
So you're on your own.
You are far away.
When you participate in creation
through the exercise of will,
through the emanation
of will, you
can be you and the
divine at the same time.
So it has a very practical
level and a very esoteric level.
Technology destroys all of that
and completely deactivates it
and just turns us into robots.
>>REGINA: What a
beautiful description.
Thank you for sharing
those definitions.
And now if we juxtapose
that to a lot of-- and
I'm not bashing it-- because
I've been part of it.
I mean, some of my
shows are part of it,
or would be perceived as part
of it, but new age thinking.
And my life has been steeped
in it over the last 30 years.
And I've gone through my
own progression, which
is, to a large extent, this, oh.
Just go with the flow.
Spirit will tell me what to do.
And this whole
notion that you're
going to be informed
what you're to do
by spirit or someone
passing by or the universe,
and just flow with it.
It really sounds like it's
the antithesis of what you're
talking about in a lot of ways.
>>KRAMER: Yeah.
New age philosophy
is stuck in a sort
of perpetual, adolescent
loop by design,
in my view, in that, for
beginners, it's kind of-- it's
good.
It's a safe harbor to talk to
people about things and express
a part of yourself that you
cannot do in the mainstream.
But when you become an
intermediate student,
as it were, an advanced,
student there's nothing there.
Nothing at all there.
And the idea of going with the
flow, and spirit will guide me,
is nonsense.
It is massive
bollocks, if I may say.
It really doesn't work.
And the reason is because will
cannot see what spirit cannot
see.
So if you're not exercising
will, spirit cannot see you.
It cannot guide you.
It cannot embrace you.
The hand of God is not with you.
It needs you to try,
let's say, that 51%.
If you exercise your will
just over the halfway mark,
then the universe says,
now I believe you.
But that begins with mind.
And then heart.
And then will.
And these things must
flow in that order.
If you are heart
led, you are heading
for being under a
bridge, with a bottle
of whisky in a brown paper bag.
>>REGINA: If you're heart led.
>>KRAMER: Heart led.
Disaster.
>>REGINA: Explain that.
Explain that hierarchy
of mind, heart,
and then I think solar plexus
is what you're talking about.
>>KRAMER: Yeah.
Mind.
This comes from my Classical,
mystical, heritage.
>>REGINA: OK, let's talk
about that for a moment,
even before it precedes it.
One of things you and I are
both very appreciative of
is the hermetic tradition.
>>KRAMER: Yes.
>>REGINA: And the
hermetic traditions,
as we were talking
off camera, it's
as though, if you're
going to speak
these other esoteric
languages, if you're
going to speak a language,
then, if you understand Latin,
you have the basis
for many languages.
And you had likened Hermeticism
to a basis for understanding
many other wisdom traditions.
>>KRAMER: Yeah.
You're stealing
my analogy there,
but I'll let you have that one.
>>REGINA: Oh. [LAUGHTER]
>>KRAMER: It is.
It absolutely is.
If you want to
understand English,
you need to understand Latin,
because not only does it
show you the word construction,
but how word meanings change.
So you have all these offshoots.
American slang and vernacular.
And German and French.
And all these Spanish.
All these different things.
The Latin influence
is very important.
And, as you rightly say,
Hermeticism, for me,
can be likened to that.
And although its origins
are very uncertain,
because of its oral
tradition of transmission,
rather than its
textual transmission--
there's very little
written down.
Rather like Druidism,
in that respect.
There are no books on Druidism.
Not one.
The short, concise Oxford
book of Druidism is rubbish.
Massively rubbish.
Sorry.
There isn't anything, it's
a little bit of archaeology.
And the guy says, look,
we don't really know.
We don't actually know.
That's always a good
sign to me, because it
means that the transmission
is from man to man.
Woman to woman.
It's from only those
who have chosen
to go through the
path of initiation.
And to me, I am
very results driven.
I'm not interested in mystery
for the sake of mystery.
I couldn't care less.
What I look at is what works.
And hermetic philosophy,
through things like theosophy,
and anthroposophy,
and Rosicrucianism--
even old Golden Dawn stuff and
all the offshoots of that--
works.
It works.
And the principles of
that are very human.
And there's a great emphasis
on individual achievement
and extraordinary discipline.
Which is absolutely missing
in the New Age paradigm.
So hermetic traditions
can only be transmitted
from a hermetic master-- or you
might say mistress these days,
as well-- to a hermetic student.
And not all hermetic masters
are hermetic students.
It's a lifelong process
that you go through.
So that informs some of the
things that I've learned.
And one hermetic
tenant is to say,
Hermeticism seeks development.
All wisdom wants
to be developed.
Like, the wisdom itself
seeks development.
Who will develop me?
Who will take this sculpture
and make it more beautiful?
So it's not a finished work.
Again, it's something that
says, here are some good roots.
Some good foundations.
You don't need to repeat these.
They are done.
However, you have something
unique to add to this.
We'd love you to
contribute to this project.
And I think that's very healthy.
And it demands discipline
in the individual.
If you're not disciplined,
you can't do it.
And that begins with mind.
If you cannot exercise
your intellect, forget it.
Because there will
be no chance of you
sustaining your
spiritual growth.
There is no growth
without discipline.
Discipline brings power.
Discipline is your friend.
So rather than it being
some hierarchical thing,
you will do this.
You will listen to this.
It's always self discipline.
And bowing to the truth of that
wisdom within in the same way
that a wise student
would bow to a sensei,
teaching martial
arts, because of
the demonstrable
physical wisdom embodied.
Not knowledge.
Forget knowledge.
Not interested.
Forget data.
Forget information.
Not interested.
Embodied wisdom is
all that matters.
The mystic knows that.
The scholar doesn't
know that, necessarily.
He may talk about it,
but he might not do it.
Important that.
Some do.
Some don't.
The mystic is not able to
profess any mystical wisdom
or maturation without
self discipline.
And that makes all
the difference for me.
So this brings discipline.
It focuses will.
That's all it does.
To be able to say, can
you adjust that lens
to make that sun burn
through that leaf.
That's discipline.
Right?
If you can't, it's too
diffuse, right, the light?
Heart is your means
of connection, right?
It has nothing to do with
love and all that stuff.
That's a nice byproduct.
Brilliant.
Love is connection.
It's two energy systems meeting
and saying, you know what?
We're not really
bounded individually.
We can merge.
So if you were to make love
with a person, classic example.
If you are to be
intimate intellectually
with a person, classic example.
So this is your faculty
for merging with something,
for two systems to
recognize their consonance.
I.e.
they're not individual
systems; they're one thing.
You know, the wave
particle duality
that our quantum
friends tell us about
is a lovely example of that.
So this is your reality
modeling, your reason,
your rationality,
your discernment.
Absolutely critical.
But that's no good without this.
This is no good without that.
And when this is let
loose without that,
watch what happens to people's
lives who are heart led.
I'll say nothing.
Think about the people you
know who say, oh, I do that.
Look at their lives.
Look at how they relate with
their friends and family.
Look at their business.
Look at their ability
to organize themselves
and look after their resources
and manage their life.
Look at that.
It speaks for itself.
>>REGINA: It does.
And yet, human beings prize, so
highly, the emotional nature.
But what you're talking about is
essentially an emotional nature
that doesn't have
higher guidance.
>>KRAMER: Emotional
nature on its own
is the emotion of a coyote.
Or an eagle.
It has a value.
It is real.
It is flush.
It always teaches.
But without the higher
being, it is unruly,
like the emotion of a child.
Hence the, kind of
purposefully, pubescent
New Age thing keeps
it at that stage.
Maturation is held at
bay because with mind,
a lot of the New Age paradigm
collapses straight away.
And there are some people
being very vociferous
about that, which
I like to hear,
having a go at those guys.
It's good that.
Not the individuals.
That's not necessary.
It doesn't help anybody.
But the principles of
saying, go with the flow.
Spirit guides me.
I'll dance on the
mountaintop in a white dress.
Great.
That's really lovely.
But that cannot be
sustained without mind.
So when this is here, then
this, your ability for intimacy,
is increased tenfold.
Your ability to know love
is increased 100 fold.
>>REGINA: Explain that
a little more deeply.
>>KRAMER: Until mind is honed,
you do not know what you are
or who you are.
So you cannot define
your boundary clearly.
So you do believe
that you're separate.
And so you go through
this extreme schizophrenia
of separateness and the hive.
Separateness and the hive.
What mind does is it shows you
the true nature of your-- very,
very odd word, this but--
multi-dimensionality.
I try not to use that word.
It's very unhelpful these days.
But the fact that you can be
in two places at the same time.
So in the "Dune"
fictional universe,
they have a phrase
for this taken
from Hebrew, which
is kwisatz haderach.
And it means something that is
in two places at the same time,
taken from a Jewish word.
That is the true
principal of heart.
That it can be you and
it can be the other thing
at the same time.
When that happens, the
level of intimacy ramps up.
And it's like having a big
shot of MDMA or ecstasy
and just going, shooo.
Gosh.
Not that I would know.
Theoretically, obviously.
But it's a huge boost
where all the boundaries
are collapsed but
guided by reason.
Guided by intellect.
>>REGINA: Its own principle
of higher mind framework.
>>KRAMER: Again, it's the will.
It's the laser say you've
got this incredible sun,
this huge solar energy
that we can focus.
And if you can do it
here, the little girl's
face in the playground,
the flower that
comes in the spring, the
look in your father's eyes.
All those things can be
so intimately connected
and contacted.
But only with this.
>>REGINA: It makes
sense because if you
don't have any framework,
or any boundaries,
for knowledge of self--
this is self-- then coming
from the heart or
emotional level,
you're constantly bouncing
off of everything else
to get some sense of acceptance.
>>KRAMER: You are.
The person without mind is led
by acknowledgement, acceptance,
issues of self esteem,
issues of validation,
issues of belonging.
I understand that.
I'm not perfect, either.
But I have worked hard
on that in myself.
And now it gives me
clarity about what
other people's challenges are.
And people come to me
privately to address this.
And it's very
endemic in society.
I'm not going to focus on
that negative, as such.
But once you confront
that reality,
confront that negative,
then you can say, right.
Why is that?
And it's because people have
said, look, you're either heart
or you're mind.
Choose which one it is.
Guys, you're the heart.
Girls, you're the mind.
Today.
It used to be the other
way around, right?
So now there's an
identity crisis.
Women think they're men.
Men think they're women.
And the truth of it is, the
great spiritual secret really,
which is an open secret.
It's right in the book that
we have on the shelves.
The spiritual human
is androgynous
in their use of mind and heart.
It creates a very
healthy androgyny
in that you have the
extraordinary masculine appeal
and dominance, and
the beautiful feminine
yielding and nurturing.
And you cannot
proceed without that.
A woman calls that emotional
maturity, which I think
is good.
And a lot of guys
struggle with that
because we've never
been taught it.
No one ever sat
us down and showed
us the significance
of emotional maturity
to your spiritual path.
And yet they are
absolutely critical.
And the people who fall
down, and get it wrong,
is because they see their
emotions as just something that
comes, and happens, and you
don't need to worry about it.
>>REGINA: And part of
that emotional maturity
involves compassion.
For example, compassion
comes from that.
It's born of that.
And it's very hard to
progress on a spiritual level
if you can't understand--
if you don't possess
basic elements of compassion.
>>KRAMER: Kwisatz haderach.
You have to be both.
You have to be you.
I have to be you.
So to know kind of
what you feel now,
and kind of what you think,
and kind of what you think
and these people, helps
me communicate better.
So it's a discipline to
say, if you're just you,
and you're being a
personality, that's very nice.
And it goes down well
in some quarters.
But if you can soften
that a bit, and say,
I know what we want.
All of us.
Because I'm part of that we.
Then you can just
get that point where
you're on the edge of self.
And you can just open
the gateway and say,
I know what you want to hear.
And I know what makes a
good piece of communication.
I don't always get it right,
but I get the feeling of it.
I get the sense of it.
And if we can communicate
that properly,
we have this wonderful
thing called empathy.
Which, again, is
useless without mind.
With mind, wow.
It's the best thing ever.
>>REGINA: OK, so
amidst all of this,
there is another sort of axiom.
If it's easy, if
the path is clear
and there's no resistance,
then that's for me.
>>KRAMER: If it's not hard,
you're doing it wrong.
Right?
Spiritual development
in these times
does not arise by itself, OK?
It does not.
There are times here,
and there are times here,
where that's different.
But let's talk about
where we are now.
You cannot go forward without
this incredible effort of will.
So, my definition of
a mystic is somebody
who looks around at the
world and goes, eh, no.
This isn't it.
This is something,
but this isn't it.
Right?
And everybody has
that mystical impulse.
Everyone watching this program
has that mystical impulse.
The difference between
that and a mystic
is the mystic says, right.
I'm going to devote my
life to the pursuit of that
and change who I am on a
week by week, month by month,
year by year basis.
And say goodbye to
being Regina and Neal.
That's gone now.
It's something else.
And it's hard work, that.
It's hard work to do that.
But that's the difference,
that's the discipline.
You know?
Do you want attachments or
do you want to transform?
Up to you.
You can if you're clever have
a little of both in this world.
Thankfully.
I have some constants
in my life, which
are very important and precious.
But there's also a great nomadic
element which, without that,
I couldn't do it.
I couldn't practice my personal
mysticism, such that it is.
And I wouldn't be able
to embody the wisdom.
It would be purely
a mental idea.
So we'll take an example of
two great contemporary mystics,
Rudolf Steiner--
>>REGINA: Love Rudolf Steiner.
>>KRAMER: --George
Gurdijieff, right.
Two very different
characters, yeah?
Rudolf Steiner,
a very whole man.
Very brilliant.
>>REGINA: Indeed.
>>KRAMER: Very humble.
Very excellent in his being.
And if you were to say
on the color spectrum,
he is green and blue--
>>REGINA: I would say
green and blue, yes.
>>KRAMER: And indigo and violet.
He is.
>>REGINA: Yes.
>>KRAMER: And,
because of that, it
works very, very well
across the board.
It's a safe place.
Great for children.
People will understand
what that is.
>>REGINA: The Waldorf system.
>>KRAMER: Waldorf schools.
Waldorf education.
Great, great human
being, who values
the human potential, Steiner.
Great mystic.
You're going to read,
also, about crazy stuff.
Very challenging.
But that's where he is.
Gurdjieff, or "Gur-geef," if you
want to say it how he said it.
Red, orange, yellow.
Hard.
Really hard disciplinarian.
And he will shape
you to say, if you
want to sustain your
growth, you have
to take yourself seriously.
Not someone else's stuff.
Your life is the instrument
for your own change.
And so, in that way, here's
something to consider.
Steiner was born in 1861,
and he died in 1925.
He saw a great world war
delete millions of people
from the universe.
And he felt that must
never, ever happen again.
He had a wonderful
optimism and a great beauty
in his transmission of
energy into human potential.
Throughout many
levels of gardening,
of spirituality, of literature.
Medicine, education.
Really a whole man.
A whole Renaissance man.
Gurdjieff was born a
little later, 1866.
He died, though, in 1949.
He saw two world wars.
And he famously said of
the Second World War,
this is millions of stupid,
ignorant people killing
millions of stupid,
ignorant people.
Problem is not nationality, or
land, or ethics, or morality.
It's spiritual ignorance.
And this is the fate of man.
Hence, his hardness.
So there was--
that's relevant today
because we're still
stuck in that cycle.
My proposal to the viewers,
to you, is to look at both.
Because somewhere
in the middle, you
find the balance of
this heart and mind.
And through that, then you
begin to open up this will.
And what I love
about Gurdjieff is
he is very much this sort
of antidote to the New Age.
Peter asked Benski, one of
his students and, later,
another teacher of
fourth way mysticism,
said what do you make of the man
who tries to develop himself?
Who goes to classes, and does
yoga, and reads these books,
and goes to conferences?
And so on.
And the woman who does this,
and tries to be conscious.
And he says, machines
they were born
and machines they will die.
>>REGINA: That is so harsh.
>>KRAMER: Very, very harsh.
I love it, right?
I love it because it says,
without an extraordinary effort
of will, and I found
this in my life,
you're not going to do it.
You're going to talk about it.
You're going to dress up as it.
You're going to act it.
You're going to
have moments of it.
But you're not going to do it.
You're not going to live it.
You're not going to take
command of yourself.
Once you've attain that
discipline, just like a dancer,
or just like a
musician, then suddenly,
you reach a threshold where
it's not hard anymore.
And you can enjoy the free
form, spontaneity of the music.
You can enjoy the free dance.
You've got it, because you've
attained the discipline.
You know what the structure is.
Then you can let rip,
and you can improvise.
>>REGINA: So in that statement
he was talking about,
essentially, the
spiritually ignorant masses.
So we go back to that
video with people
walking in a hypnotic state.
This hypnogogic
state we're in, do
you believe there are
other realms of beings,
or intelligences that are
actually affecting that state?
Or is it all our
own lack of will?
>>KRAMER: To put it briefly,
I would say, honestly,
I would say it's half and half.
The present circumstance
is as much our fault
as it isn't, right?
It's hard to say, if
you're a serious student
and practitioner of
contemporary mysticism,
it's hard to say there are no
external forces and all kinds
of interesting intelligences
outside of Homo sapien
understanding of what
higher intelligence is.
There is.
There's other worlds.
There's other beings.
There's other forces.
There is.
It's also the case that
their predominance is down
to our disavowal.
So when you've got-- 7
billion, I think, isn't it--
7 billion people in
a state of disavowal,
and of ignorance of their own
empowerment, that gives consent
to what I call empire.
Let's just call it empire.
We can imagine them as
Egyptians, or Romans,
or Mongols, or
Brits, or Americans.
Whatever.
Let's call it empire.
Let's imagine that its
unbroken for 25,000 years.
And let's imagine there's all
kinds of interesting science
fiction forces that
plug into that.
That only works with consent.
And the way you give
consent is to disavow will.
That's it.
That's the game.
So as soon as you
grasp your own will,
you withdraw consent and
the system collapses.
But you try telling
that to the guys walking
around Wall Street, and
Madison Avenue, and Hollywood.
And the malls and
the grocery stores.
They don't know what
you're talking about.
What's that got to
do with anything?
So it requires education,
as Steiner understood,
for example.
You've got to talk to people in
a fair and open way, early on.
If you come to them
as students, graduated
from Oxford, and Cambridge,
and Harvard, and Yale,
and Berkeley, and stuff.
Too late.
They're gone.
>>REGINA: So you
would say, then,
back to the first part of
that answer, kind of 50-50.
We have external forces that
are able to exert because we
are in this state of disavowal.
Now let's look,
alternatively, you
look at the subject of higher
consciousness, and higher
intelligences, and a
state of non interference.
And let's look at the
irony of what actually
happens between
those two realities.
>>KRAMER: Very important,
that, in my view.
Non interference
means that the higher
the level of
consciousness, the more it
has to accept, and
abide by, what I
would call a universal law.
Which is, you cannot contravene
the will of a sovereign being.
And the higher the
consciousness, as I say,
the more you have
to respect that.
If you're just a guy on
the street who's in a mess,
I can walk out of there
at the end of today,
and he sticks a knife in
me, and takes the wallet out
of my back pocket.
Because the
consciousness is low.
So he can contravene my will.
Empire isn't playing a
low consciousness game.
It's playing a high
consciousness game,
which we'll come
to, perhaps later.
And that means that it needs
our consent to function.
It says, I'm going to
change your reality.
Is that OK?
And you go, yep.
Right.
And then it can do it.
If you say, no.
It can't touch you.
It cannot touch you.
It can do nothing.
And that consent is harvested
by all manner of things,
from-- if you look at our
friends and colleagues who
are studying this from a
sovereign, legal, freeman
perspective, whatever you want
to call it-- having a driving
license, a passport, swearing
an oath are ways of harvesting
consent.
Using money is a way
of giving consent.
Really difficult things
to get away from,
that people like you and I
have been brought up to think,
well, this is just stuff.
Don't worry about that.
No, it isn't.
That's a practical means
of harvesting consent.
To permit, and license yourself.
To authenticate yourself
to be in the world
is an act of disavowal.
Right?
So you have to slowly begin
to move away from that.
What I would say, work at that.
Work at that.
Consider how you can
begin to withdraw consent
from those things.
Seek paths of exemption,
is one of the phrases
we use in the business.
What you can also do
is start to realize
that the reality that's
offered up to you isn't it.
That, to me, is the
most powerful way
to start because you've got
total control over that.
But it's so
overwhelming, the sort
of scientific dictatorship.
Thankfully, programs like
yours erode that nonsense
and introduce real scientists.
Real innovation.
Real medicine.
Real physics.
Real biology.
Good.
But the presiding
consciousness says
the authorities will
tell you what is real.
What you think is
just meaningless.
That is very, very
hard to do undo that.
Very hard to undo.
And that is a process of
years of conditioning,
which is part of
confronting the negative.
Very important.
Part of developing
will, to say, is it OK
for me to decide what is real?
Most people think no.
And it requires a
great encouragement,
and a great compassion, and
a great faith in each other
to reverse that.
>>REGINA: Yes.
Absolutely.
And when you're looking
at these-- again,
we were talking a moment ago
about the notion of the higher
consciousness-- higher
intelligence, which does not--
is not allowed, by a
universal principle,
to interfere with any kind
of developing species.
But that doesn't mean we can't
interface with those realms.
That's different.
By choice.
But can you talk a
little bit about that?
>>KRAMER: If you want
to go to the frontier
and be the pioneer,
Lewis and Clark,
with your musket and
your boots on, fantastic.
You will find things.
You will find other worlds.
They are there.
It's hard to say no to that.
I have lots-- vast
personal experience
that is not relevant for
public broadcast, if I may say,
but it's perfectly
communicable amongst those
who are also doing it.
And I know on your show,
I've done my homework
before I came today,
people are very
happy to talk about channels
and different communication.
Aliens, and nature
spirits, and elementals,
and all that kind of stuff.
I don't think your guys have
a problem with that, do they?
>>REGINA: No.
>>KRAMER: That is there.
The problem is that,
again, unless you
know your vessel, which
is mind, heart, will,
you only have on faith
that the incoming channel
is who it says it is.
And in my view, and I say this
very conservatively and very
favorably, 90% of
it is nonsense.
And dangerous and harmful.
And, in the end,
it's limited what
danger can be-- what havoc
can be wreaked by that.
But it's confusing
because you get
lots of neophytes,
and greenhorns,
and wonderful new
people who come and say,
I don't know anything,
but I want to know.
I want to learn.
What shall I read?
What shall I get off the shelf?
Let's go to Powells, and
Borders, and The Bodhi Tree
and get all these things.
And they go away with a
massive load of confusion.
And of uncertainty.
Because there's mud and
pearls all mixed up together.
And it's hard to say.
So again, the power of
discernment cannot be
underestimated.
>>REGINA: That's what
I was going to say.
This takes a high
degree of discretion.
As you say, you must
know your own vehicle.
And it must be wired sensitively
to understand what has truth.
Even though if we're calling
it subjective or objective.
>>KRAMER: You do.
And classical Hindu culture,
from which Hindu philosophy
and spirituality
is a part-- which
is why it gives it
greater credence
and penetration than Buddhism--
which is, as Alan Watts,
the great British
philosopher, used
to say, Buddhism is Hindu
spirituality stripped
for export, right?
You miss something out if
you just do the Buddhism.
I mean, it's fantastic.
But you miss something out.
And that is the culture of
Hindu spiritual philosophy.
It would take a young man,
as it was in those days, now
young women, as
well, thankfully.
And make them a whole man.
A Renaissance man, who
was a warrior, musician.
They would teach
them how to cook.
How to make love.
How to dress.
How to be.
How to speak.
How to run.
And create a whole man.
A whole man, right?
And say, only then can
you bring in this thing
that we call Spirit.
Only then can you do that.
Before that point, you'll
have a sense of it.
And you'll taste it.
And smell it in the
wind here and there
on a mountaintop, or in
a cafe, or a conference,
or a gathering around the fire.
But then it will escape you
because you're not disciplined.
You have no will.
You don't know who you are.
You don't know what
you're capable of.
You don't know what you are not.
So that is a thing
that comes back
through contemporary
practical mysticism.
It says, be a whole person.
A whole woman.
A whole man.
Only then can you do anything.
Prior to that, you're
playing in the sand pit.
>>REGINA: And, as you
were talking about,
taking home arm loads of books,
at what point-- and I asked
this myself, of myself-- I've
read, I can't even count,
of course, book after book after
book for 30 years in this area.
And at what point do you just
stop and you start practicing?
You start applying
the knowledge,
rather than just
garnering more knowledge?
>>KRAMER: It's a
very common thing
to go to the sources
of these shows,
like this, and soak them up.
And learn.
And keep listening.
And then you get a
bit more discerning.
Well, that guy's no good.
This guy was good.
She was good.
That was rubbish.
And you gradually
build a discernment.
In the early days,
though, what people
do is they read everything.
And they're constantly
listening to the MP3s,
and watching the videos,
and all the rest of it.
And nearly everyone I know, who
I have ongoing communication
with, at some point, comes
back and says, you know what?
I've stopped doing that now.
I do it sparingly.
And I don't have
live broadcast TV,
so I'm happy to have
another medium for that.
But the volume of
it is different now.
And I feel that I've
got something to do now.
Not to think.
No rumination or cogitation.
Not this abstraction, but
to actually do something.
To put the books, and the
notes, and the papers down.
And get rid of that and
go and do something.
And that-- you
know when that is.
You know when that is.
It's not far in.
It should be one,
two, three years in.
And then that comes to a close.
And you realize that you
are now moving down as,
in Victorian and
Georgian mysticism
of that classical
era of 1880s-1900.
They would say, you're in a
particular magical stream.
And you realize what yours is.
Whether it's
shamanic or mystical.
Whether it's hard or soft.
European, Native
American, Meso-American.
Whatever it is, you start
to know your lineage.
You start to connect with it
and move in your magical stream.
When you do that, you
can put the books away
because they can't
teach you anything new.
And it's just like "The
Matrix," where, say look,
there's this great vast thing
out there, of knowingness,
and you just plug into it.
And this linear way of doing it
is very significant for a time.
And sometimes it's,
frankly, just nice
to sit with a book and a
cup of tea and your pipe.
Maybe not you, but.
>>REGINA: No.
>>KRAMER: And read, right?
And actually go through the
lovely traditional thing
of putting your
fingers on the paper.
And turning the page.
And the window's here
and it's raining outside.
And it's a lovely,
intimate relationship
you're having with somebody's
words and thoughts.
That's lovely.
I enjoy that.
But the actual process
of knowingedness
is very limited with
linear knowledge.
It comes through
higher being, which
is this confluence of
mind and heart and will.
That teaches you stuff.
Things unknown that cannot
be read off the page.
That cannot be had
from somebody's mouth.
They come through your
own personal interaction
with reality.
Only.
And that's where all
higher knowledge resides.
>>REGINA: And you're really
big on applied wisdom
and the characteristics
of applied wisdom.
>>KRAMER: Very, very insistent.
Very insistent about that.
>>REGINA: OK.
So let's talk about the
characteristics, the three H's,
characteristics
of applied wisdom.
>>KRAMER: You've got
disembodied knowledge.
I know these things.
Here's some da-- stuff.
Wow, he knows loads of things.
Great.
>>REGINA: But their lives
aren't changing oftentimes.
>>KRAMER: Well done.
>>REGINA: I know
a lot of people,
and myself included depending--
>>KRAMER: Yeah.
Yeah, yeah.
>>REGINA: --where
you might know.
>>KRAMER: It's all here.
>>REGINA: But if
you're not applying it,
it really is not relevant.
>>KRAMER: It's disembodied
knowledge, right?
Starts off like a good starting
point, but without destination.
Starts off like that.
Embodied wisdom is
where you live it.
You feel it.
You sweat it.
You bleed it.
You cry it.
You're in the fetal
position on the floor
because your life's collapsed.
Now, now you're
talking about wisdom.
That starts to mean
something then, right?
Prior to that, it's
just some nice ideas.
And people with
lots of nice ideas
usually have rubbish lives.
They're in disarray.
A lovely rule of thumb for
this, look for this, right.
Look for this as a marker
of attainment and wisdom.
That is a track
record of wisdom.
Number one, humility.
Right.
The wisest people I've
met, as me, on this planet,
all have that.
And I've remarked on that.
A great humility.
They're not always telling
me about all the stuff
they've done.
They're not always firing names
and accomplishments at me.
They say nothing.
And they say, look at that.
Look at that bluebird
on the branch.
Oh, yeah.
That's what they say.
They don't tell
me about anything.
They're in here, where we
are, sharing something, right?
Great humility.
Walk down, with your
head bowed, like this.
Be happy where you are
with what you've got.
And an understanding that
your ego is in check.
And you can be strong and big.
And you can be a bit
visceral and vociferous,
like I'm being a little bit now.
And then be very
gentle and quiet.
And be at home with that,
just as any other time.
So humility is
absolutely essential.
So if I-- in my
business, as in yours--
we come across people who
profess great wisdom, don't we?
The first thing I look
for, is this a humble man
Is this a humble woman?
No, it isn't.
So that calls into question
the professed wisdom.
Maybe you have a
lot of knowledge
and unfolded and changing.
Fine.
But don't profess wisdom
if you haven't got humility
because they go hand in hand.
I'm still working on mine.
It's a work in progress,
as everything else is.
But I've noticed that the
very great men and women have
it, humility, in
every step, right?
Another H, humor.
Right.
Humor is so unique to
humanity, I can't tell you.
There is the thought that
many visiting intelligences,
let's just say that, come
here to look at humor.
Because it doesn't
exist anywhere else.
You see, the humans have
got this funny thing
that's one of the
few great gifts
that keeps that rubbish species
keep evolving, and bettering
itself, and dreaming
of excellence.
Humor is like this
extraordinary, implacable force
that they have that
cuts through the biggest
disasters imaginable.
>>REGINA: Right.
In fact, that's where
it often comes out.
It's like, why?
>>KRAMER: It does.
And you have to laugh.
And you have to see it.
And the dearest
people to meet, let
me think of a few--
Alan Watts I mentioned,
the great, great, great
British philosopher,
and I would say
mystic, born in 1915.
Died in 1973.
I never got to meet him.
I was just a little kid.
One of the few regrets.
I'll see him later, though.
Shunryu Suzuki.
Great Zen teacher.
Frank Zappa, brilliant
social critic.
Musician.
Of course, Bill Hicks.
Of course, George Carlin.
Mark Twain.
Jonathan Swift.
Great satirists.
And yet people who penetrate
American and British culture
with extraordinary deftness,
and skill, and beauty.
And allow us to approach things.
The first conspiracy
theorist, Bill Hicks.
Not many people were
doing it in the '80s.
There were a few.
But on a mass level, he
was talking about things
that we're just
catching up with now.
>>REGINA: Yes.
>>KRAMER: But it was a joke.
And it was humor.
So we could approach
it and think, ha,
that was funny and everything.
And he's very challenging.
And, yeah.
What he said is a real thing
that I need to look at.
Humor.
Watch people who
never smile and laugh.
Watch out for that.
It's a sign of something.
Another final H, three
H's, householder, right?
Funny word, this.
>>REGINA: Householder.
>>KRAMER: Householder.
These three guys, George
Gurdjieff, Morris Nicole,
Peter Ouspensky, teach
in this fourth way,
I would say hermetic
representative,
brilliant mystical tradition.
Modern, brilliant,
results driven, human.
Right?
They were so tired of getting
people who were not up to it
come through the doors that they
had to ramp up the admissions
process to make sure it
was only serious people.
So there's three
types of people:
lunatics, tramps,
and householders.
Good householders.
A good householder is someone
who can organize themselves,
knows how to be
in a family, knows
how to organize their
finances and their stuff,
knows how to conduct themselves,
and is generally reliable.
Right?
Solid, reliable.
I'm going to be
here at 10 past 1.
I will be here at 10 past 1.
You can count on that.
Right?
The lunatic might be full
of knowledge and brilliance,
and might be a politician.
Might be a great military man.
A great poet.
But is lacking, right,
in that reliability.
In that discernment.
In that judgment.
The tramp.
Lots of great intent, right?
Lots of amazing hope, and
great feeling of spirituality,
a great desire to
see a better world,
to see clean oceans
and happy skies.
We understand that.
Nothing wrong with that.
But that's it.
No discipline.
No discernment.
No judgment.
No reliability.
They can't run a
household, as it were.
They cannot run a household.
So in those days,
those guys said, right.
Being a good householder
is the starting point
for a man or woman of
spiritual substance.
And until then, go away.
Learn to be a good householder
first, then come to us.
And it's become--
>>REGINA: So, grounded.
>>KRAMER: --it's become a very
strong marker for me, that.
Because as you
well know yourself,
there's a lot of tramps,
figuratively speaking,
in the New Age movement.
Lovely people, right.
And I'm not judging them
because I don't know them.
No point.
But I can see that they
can't sustain growth
because they haven't learned the
art of the householder, right?
So there's some very firm,
practical, literal meaning
in that.
And some figurative
associations,
as you can imagine.
But being a good householder.
So you have humility,
humor, householder.
Markers of wisdom.
If they're not there,
there's something missing.
>>REGINA: And finally, you
look to actions, to deeds,
to conduct.
You're not so
interested in what--
>>KRAMER: I don't care
what they're saying.
>>REGINA: --people have
to say, ideologically.
>>KRAMER: I'm not interested
in what people are saying.
It's of no interest
to me, at all, right?
It comes and goes,
that, doesn't it?
And some people are very
clever and it's nice.
And some people are
stupid and it's boring.
That comes and goes.
And we can ramp
that up and down.
The only marker, the
only way, the only method
of demonstrating and embodying
wisdom is in deeds and conduct.
What you do and how you do it.
Not what you say,
not what you think.
Not any ideology.
I'm not interested in that.
And the wisest, most brilliant
people I've met in the world,
neither are they.
Neither was Rudolf Steiner.
Neither was George Gurdjieff.
They're not interested in that.
Show me what you do,
and what you've done.
And show me how you did it.
How did you conduct yourself?
Do you know how to
conduct yourself?
With your mother and your
child and your colleagues
and the lady in the post office
and the guy at the Immigration
Services.
Do you know how to conduct
yourself in those environments?
Because those are the practical
flesh of your spiritual life.
>>REGINA: Wow.
OK.
On that note, we're
going to do this again,
because I think we're just
getting warmed up, actually.
>>KRAMER: Good.
>>REGINA: OK?
Profound, and also
very grounded.
Thank you, Neil.
>>KRAMER: Thank you.
>>REGINA: You can
immerse yourself
in this kind of mature
spiritual contemplation
by going to Neil's
site at neilkramer.com.
You'll find essays, videos,
interviews, downloads,
all kinds of things.
Including access to his live
events, books, and more.
I definitely think we'll
be seeing more of you
in the future.
Until next time, thank you for
joining us here on Gaiam TV.
[MUSIC PLAYING]